<https://freakonomics.com/podcast/ten-myths-about-the-u-s-tax-system/>

Here are what Jessica Riedl calls the "top 10 tax myths" in the U.S.
system.

RIEDL:

**Myth one** is that tax cuts pay for themselves. Tax cuts can bring
some extra revenue. They almost never pay for themselves.

**Myth two** is that tax cuts will starve the beast by forcing Congress
to cut spending. But historically, it's the opposite --- when we cut
taxes, Congress increases spending, and when we raise taxes, Congress
cuts spending.

**Myth three** is that the middle class pays higher tax rates than the
rich. This is not true. If you take a look at all combined federal
taxes, the top one percent pays 33 percent, the middle class pays 12,
the bottom pays roughly 0.

**Myth four** is that those old 91 percent tax rates in the 1950s
produced all this new revenue. The reality is, nobody actually paid the
91 percent tax rates back then. In fact, virtually nobody paid over 50
percent in a tax bracket, and those tax brackets raised virtually no
revenue.

**Myth five** is that Europe funds its bigger governments by taxing the
rich more; in reality, they tax the rich about the same as the United
States. And the entire overage in tax revenue for Europe is the result
of value-added taxes, which are essentially national sales taxes that
hit the middle class.

**Myth six** is that tax cuts for the rich are the reason we have large
budget deficits. The reality is that since 2000, we've cut taxes by two
percent of G.D.P., of which maybe zero-point-six percent of G.D.P. is on
the rich, but we've increased spending by six percent of G.D.P., a much
bigger driver.

**Myth seven** asserts that taxing corporations and millionaires can
eliminate the deficit. You could tax them at 100 percent, and seize all
their wealth --- it doesn't come close.

**Myth eight** is that most of the 2017 tax cuts went to corporations
and the wealthy; the reality is while they received bigger tax cuts in
terms of pure dollars, as a share of the taxes they were paying, it was
a roughly proportional income tax cut, everybody got their tax rate
dropped by about one percentage point.

**Myth nine** is that if we go back to the 1980 tax code, essentially
repealing the Reagan, Bush, and Trump tax cuts, we'll have painless
deficit reduction. In reality, if we did that, the tax burden on the
middle class would go through the roof --- not just the rich, but the
middle class --- to unacceptably high levels.

**Myth ten** is that America's corporate taxes are far below
international standards. The reality is we had the highest corporate tax
rate in the developed world until 2017. And even right now, after the
2017 corporate tax cuts, our statutory and effective corporate tax rate
is still in the top one-third. We also collect slightly more than other
countries in business taxes, when you include passthrough corporations.
